Replace `graphql-tag` with internal `gql` utility (#1332)
Shopify/hydrogen: docs/utilities/gql.md

---
gid: 232fa7f6-5c17-4659-b8c8-4466be88d602
title: gql

> description: The gql literal utility adds syntax highlight to your GraphQL queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The gql literal utility adds syntax highlighting to your GraphQL queries.
```

---

> The `gql` literal utility adds syntax highlight to your GraphQL queries. It can be used to pass queries to `useShopQuery`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gql` literal utility adds syntax highlighting to your GraphQL queries. You can use `gql` to pass queries to the [`useShopQuery`](https://shopify.dev/api/hydrogen/hooks/global/useshopquery) hook.
```

> The difference between this utility and [`graphql-tag`](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag) is that the former never parses strings into ASTNodes in production. As a result, it makes the production bundle smaller by dropping certain AST-related dependencies. In development, however, it will use ASTNodes to provide better errors in your queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between the `gql` utility and [`graphql-tag`](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag) is that `gql` never parses strings into ASTNodes in production. As a result, it makes the production bundle smaller by dropping certain AST-related dependencies. In development, however, `gql` uses ASTNodes to provide better errors in your queries.
```

## Example code

```tsx
import {gql} from '@shopify/hydrogen';

const QUERY = gql`
query Localization {
  localization {
    availableCountries {
      name
    }
  }
}`

useShopQuery({
  query: QUERY,
})
```

> ## Related framework topics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Related hooks
```

> - [`useShopQuery`](api/hydrogen/hooks/global/useshopquery)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`useShopQuery`](https://shopify.dev/api/hydrogen/hooks/global/useshopquery)
```
